New events for Astro's view transition API (#9090)
withastro/astro: .changeset/few-keys-heal.md

---
'astro': minor
---
Take full control over the behavior of view transitions!

Three new events now complement the existing `astro:after-swap` and `astro:page-load` events:

``` javascript
astro:before-preparation // Control how the DOM and other resources of the target page are loaded 
astro:after-preparation // Last changes before taking off? Remove that loading indicator? Here you go!
astro:before-swap // Control how the DOM is updated to match the new page
```

The `astro:before-*` events allow you to change properties and strategies of the view transition implementation.

> The `astro:after-*` events allow you to make changes to the current DOM before and after the transition. 

Reviewer: I'll note that saying it's for "before and after" is maybe confusing here, since we're trying to distinguish `before-` events from `after-` events?

The explanation on the docs PR refers to after events firing "when a particular phase has finished".

The distinction between these two here makes it sound like "before" is used for changing *how* a process occurs, but "after" sounds like it only changes WHAT gets written to the DOM. Is that correct? Are both of these correct? If so, maybe check that "tip" in the docs section for updating/nuance!

Author: Argh, 😄 that was really confusing, thanks for pointing it out! I like the wording in the "tip" much better. The after event is not about what is written to the DOM. Making changes to the DOM was just one example of what you can do when you know a phase is over.

> Head over to [View Transition docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions/) to find out more about the events!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Head over to docs to see [the full view transitions lifecycle](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions/#lifecycle-events) including these new events!
```
Maybe something like this? Going directly to the page and implying that they don't have to piece together new and old in their brains, but they'll see a complete picture there?
